h1. This is a fork

This fork is supported time to time mainly for the upgrade to new Elasticsearch versions.
For the corresponding Lucene plugin fork see https://github.com/babayotakun/russianmorphology
for the actual Elasticsearch version.
Latest: Elasticsearch 7.10 Russian morphology plugin.

h1. Morphological Analysis Plugin for ElasticSearch

The Morphological Analysis plugin integrates <a href="https://github.com/AKuznetsov/russianmorphology">Russian and English morphology for java and lucene framework</a> into elasticsearch. This plugin adds two new analyzers: "russian_morphology" and "english_morphology" and two token filters with the same names.

The <a href="https://github.com/imotov/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology/blob/master/demo.sh">demo.sh</a> file shows a few examples of the analyzers behavior.

h2. Switching to Hunspell

*NOTE:* Please note that this plugin is available only for Elasticsearch v5.6.x and below. For Elasticsearch version 6.0 and above consider switching to the officially supported <a href="https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/analysis-hunspell-tokenfilter.html">hunspell</a> token filter with russian dictionaries.

h2. Compatibility

The following table shows the compatible versions of Elasticsearch and Morphological Analysis Plugin.

|_.  Elasticsearch   |_. URL  |
| 7.10.0  | http://bintray.com/api/ui/download/babayotakun/elasticsearch-russian-morphology/analysis-morphology-7.10.0.zip |
| 7.8.0  | http://bintray.com/api/ui/download/babayotakun/elasticsearch-russian-morphology/analysis-morphology-7.8.0.zip |
| 6.2.2  | https://bintray.com/api/ui/download/babayotakun/elasticsearch-russian-morphology/org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology/6.2.2/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology-6.2.2.zip |
| below  | see origin repository |

h2. Installation on 5.x

In order to install the plugin, simply run the following command in the elasticsearch home directory:

<pre>
bin/elasticsearch-plugin install URL
</pre>

where @URL@ is the URL of the plugin from the compatibility table. For examples to install version @5.6.8@ run

<pre>
bin/elasticsearch-plugin install http://dl.bintray.com/content/imotov/elasticsearch-plugins/org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology/5.6.8/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology-5.6.8.zip
</pre>

h2. Installation on 2.x

In order to install the plugin, simply run the following command in the elasticsearch home directory:

<pre>
bin/plugin install URL
</pre>

where @URL@ is the URL of the plugin from the compatibility table. For examples to install version @2.4.6@ run

<pre>
bin/plugin install http://dl.bintray.com/content/imotov/elasticsearch-plugins/org/elasticsearch/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology/2.4.6/elasticsearch-analysis-morphology-2.4.6.zip
</pre>

h2. Installation before 2.0

In order to install the plugin, simply run the following command in the elasticsearch home directory:

<pre>
bin/plugin -install analysis-morphology -url URL
</pre>

where @URL@ is the URL of the plugin from the compatibility table.

h2. Upgrade to 1.2.0

The way position increments are handled was changed in the version 1.2.0. Therefore, complete reindexing is highly recommended after upgrade to 1.2.0.



